% DWALK(1)

# NAME

dwalk - distributed walk and list

# SYNOPSIS

Parallel MPI application to recursively walk and list contents in a directory.

dwalk provides functionality similar to ls and du. Like du, the tool report a summary of the total number of files and bytes. Like ls, the tool sorts and prints information about individual files.

dwalk can walk a file tree in parallel with various different options. You can sort the output of the distributed file walk based on different fields (i.e name, use, group, size, etc), or get a file list distribution that will put the amount of files you have of a certain size into bins specified by the user. For instance, if you wanted to know how many files in a large directory have 0 bytes then you would use the --distribution option. 

It can save the list to a file or read input from a previously saved file. The file must be generated or read by a tool in the mpiFileUtils suite.

# DESCRIPTION

# OPTIONS

-i, \--input FILE
:   Read source list from FILE.  FILE must be generated by another tool from the mpiFileUtils suite.

-o, \--output FILE
:   Write the processed list to a file.

-l, \--lite
:   Walk file system without stat.

-s, \--sort FIELD
:   Sort output by comma-delimited fields.

-d, \--distribution size:SEPARATORS 
:   Print the file size distribution. For example, specifying size:0,80,100 will report the number of files that have size 0 bytes, between 1-80 bytes, between 81-99 bytes, and 100 bytes or greater. 

-p, \--print
:   Print files to the screen.

-v, \--verbose
:   Run in verbose mode.

-h, \--help
:   Print usage.

# SORT FIELDS

By default, the list of files dwalk captures is not sorted.  To sort the list, one or more fields can be specified in a comma-delimited list:

name,user,group,uid,gid,atime,mtime,ctime,size

A field name can be preceded with '-' to sort in reverse order.

# EXAMPLES

1. To print summary information for a directory:

mpirun -np 128 dwalk -v /dir/to/walk

2. To print a list of files, sorted by file size, then by file name:

mpirun -np 128 dwalk --print --sort size,name /dir/to/walk

3. To save the list of files:

mpirun -np 128 dwalk --output out.dwalk /dir/to/walk

4. Print the file distribution for specified histogram based on the size field from the top level directory.

mpirun -np 128 dwalk -v --print -d size:0,20,1G src/ 

# SEE ALSO

`dbcast` (1).
`dchmod` (1).
`dcmp` (1).
`dcp` (1).
`drm` (1).
`dstripe` (1).
`dwalk` (1).

The mpiFileUtils source code and all documentation may be downloaded from
<https://github.com/hpc/mpifileutils>
