.TH DCP 1 "" 
.SH NAME
.PP
dcp \- distributed file copy program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
dcp [cCdfhpRrUv][\-\-] source_file target_file dcp [cCdfhpRrUv][\-\-]
source_file ...
target_directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dcp is a file copy tool in the spirit of \f[I]cp(1)\f[] that evenly
distributes work across a large cluster without any centralized state.
It is designed for copying files which are located on a distributed
parallel file system.
The method used in the file copy process is a self\-stabilization
algorithm which enables per\-node autonomous processing and a token
passing scheme to detect termination.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-conditional
When copying a source directory to a destination directory, copy the
source directory over the destination directory.
The default behavior is to copy the source directory inside the
destination directory.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-skip\-compare
Skip the compare operation to confirm file integrity.
When using this option, a file integrity check, such as md5sum, should
be performed after the file(s) have been copied.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug=\f[I]level\f[]
Specify the level of debug information to output.
Level may be one of: \f[I]fatal\f[], \f[I]err\f[], \f[I]warn\f[],
\f[I]info\f[], or \f[I]dbg\f[].
Increasingly verbose debug levels include the output of less verbose
debug levels.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Remove existing destination files if creation or truncation fails.
If the destination filesystem is specified to be unreliable
(\f[C]\-U\f[], \f[C]\-\-unreliable\-filesystem\f[]), this option may
lower performance since each failure will cause the entire file to be
invalidated and copied again.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a brief message listing the \f[I]dcp(1)\f[] options and usage.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-preserve
Preserve the original files\[aq] owner, group, permissions (including
the setuid and setgid bits), time of last modification and time of last
access.
In case duplication of owner or group fails, the setuid and setgid bits
are cleared.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-recursive
Copy directories recursively, and do the right thing when objects other
than ordinary files or directories are encountered.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-recursive\-unspecified
Copy directories recursively, and ignore objects other than ordinary
files or directories.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-U, \-\-unreliable\-filesystem
If the filesystem is very unreliable, this option may be used to always
retry an operation when a failure occurs.
If failures are permanent, this option will cause an infinite loop.
Specifying this option when force is enabled (\f[C]\-f\f[],
\f[C]\-\-force\f[]) may lower performance.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.RS
.RE
.SS Known bugs
.PP
When the force option is specified and truncation fails, the copy and
truncation will be stuck in an infinite loop until the truncation
operation returns with success.
.PP
The maximum supported filename length for any file transfered is
approximately 4068 characters.
This may be less than the number of characters that your operating
system supports.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]dcmp\f[] (1).
\f[C]dcp\f[] (1).
\f[C]dfilemaker\f[] (1).
\f[C]dfind\f[] (1).
\f[C]dgrep\f[] (1).
\f[C]dparallel\f[] (1).
\f[C]drm\f[] (1).
\f[C]dtar\f[] (1).
\f[C]dwalk\f[] (1).
.PP
The FileUtils source code and all documentation may be downloaded from
<http://fileutils.io>
