.TH DFILEMAKER 1 "" 
.SH NAME
.PP
dfilemaker \- distributed random file generation program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
dfilemaker [options] path
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dfilemaker is a tool for generating files and file trees which contain
files suitable for testing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-depth=\f[I]min\f[]\-\f[I]max\f[]
Specify the depth of the filesystem tree to generate.
The depth will be selected at random within the bounds of min and max.
The default depth is set to 10 min, 20 max.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fill=\f[I]type\f[]
Specify the fill pattern of the file.
Current options available are: \f[C]random\f[], \f[C]true\f[],
\f[C]false\f[], and \f[C]alternate\f[].
\f[C]random\f[] will fill the file using urandom(4).
\f[C]true\f[] will fill the file with a 0xFF pattern.
\f[C]false\f[] will fill the file with a 0x00 pattern.
\f[C]alternate\f[] will fill the file with a 0xAA pattern.
The default fill is \f[C]random\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-ratio=\f[I]min\f[]\-\f[I]max\f[]
Specify the ratio of files to directories as a percentage.
The ratio will be chosen at random within the bounds of min and max.
The default ratio is 5% min to 20% max.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-seed=\f[I]integer\f[]
Specify the seed to use for random number generation.
This can be used to create reproducible test runs.
The default is to generate a random seed.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-size=\f[I]min\f[]\-\f[I]max\f[]
Specify the file sizes to generate.
The file size will be chosen at random random within the bounds of min
and max.
The default file size is set from 1MB to 5MB.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width=\f[I]min\f[]\-\f[I]max\f[]
Specify the width of the filesystem tree to generate.
The width will be selected at random within the bounds of min and max.
The width of the tree is determined by counting directories.
The default width is set to 10 min, 20 max.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print a brief message listing the \f[I]dfilemaker(1)\f[] options and
usage.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]dcmp\f[] (1).
\f[C]dcp\f[] (1).
\f[C]dfilemaker\f[] (1).
\f[C]dfind\f[] (1).
\f[C]dgrep\f[] (1).
\f[C]dparallel\f[] (1).
\f[C]drm\f[] (1).
\f[C]dtar\f[] (1).
\f[C]dwalk\f[] (1).
.PP
The FileUtils source code and all documentation may be downloaded from
<http://fileutils.io>
